Malan Roux and Maryth Meise discuss Roux s new book, Calitzdorp Cameos. Photo: Neil CurryNiel Curry AT this year s Apricot Festival, which will be held this Saturday (26 November) at the Calitzdorp Station, the Calitzdorp Museum will release Calitzdorp Cameos, the English version of a book that was published last year. The book is written by local amateur historian, Malan Roux. The original book, in Afrikaans, is the story of a number of the significant houses in the town, and their successive owners. It was warmly received by people interested in the history of Calitzdorp. In order to make it available to the growing number of English speakers in the town, it was decided to have it translated. The translation was done by a recent newcomer to Calitzdorp, Maryth Meise. Malan Roux holds an honoured place as chronicler of Calitzdorp. Calitzdorp Cameos gives a glimpse inside the houses and lives of many of the people who were instrumental in creating what has become a bustling Klein Karoo town. The soft-cover 440-page book is a feast of fact and anecdote; art and architecture, all told with the author s inimitable sensitivity and humour. These are no dry-bones histories; the research is thorough but the scholarship unassuming. The stories range from a serial murderer to connections with nobility, from the first ascent of Towerkop in Ladismith, to ghosts and graves &#8211; all set against the wider backdrop of land, wars and ostriches. The text is richly illustrated with historical photographs, house plans, maps and the author s own distinctive pen-and-ink sketches. Calitzdorp Cameos will be available at the Festival at R350 (or R300 if you are a Friend of the Calitzdorp Museum) or at the Calitzdorp Museum (cnr Van Riebeeck and Geyser Streets). It can also be ordered by telephone (044 2133 414 or 044 2133 642) or by e-mail (eco-logic1@ mweb.co.za) &#8211; and can be posted to you at R350 plus postage.&nbsp; Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website